Gene is an exuberant emoji😃 who was born without a filter. Because of this, he is able to take the appearance of multiple different standard emoji😀s. In the beginning of the movie, he is shown to be unable to control this, yet later in the movie he has control over his quirk. He is shown right-handed when he tries to write on Spam, the white envelope who thinks about sales to trick others.



Jailbreak 
Jailbreak is a brown emoji👩🏻‍🎤 with a black beanie and with her light blue code breaker watch. She has blue hair, golden eyes, pink cheeks, purple lipstick and wears a black dress and skinny tights.
When Jailbreak takes off her beanie, she has straight and long brown hair, and also wears a shiny, golden crown, with a little blue jewel embedded in it.



Hi-5 
Hi-5 is a peach Hi-5 emoji🖐🏻, who works in the cube. He wears a blue bandage on his index finger. He has blue eyes. He's a clown, and enjoys making jokes, but likes his friends just the same.



Smiler 
Smiler is the main antagonist in the emoji🙂 Movie. She is the system supervisor of the company and was voiced by Maya Rudolph. She thinks she is the "original emoji🙂" even though she could have just decorated the floor like that. She later got braces when she broke out her tooth when Poop arrested her when he tried to save Textopolis and stop her from deleting Gene.


Favorite emojis 
Talk about a cast of characters! Our team built over 300 unique emoji😀, troll, pirate, and virus characters.
The typical time to rig a unique character is extensive, but our rigging supervisor worked with our development team to devise 'smart' rigging systems. Our AutoRig tool was developed for The emoji😀 Movie to create quick procedural rigs on diverse secondary characters, based on factors in the model that the code can analyze. Characters like Pizza, Donut, Bathtub, Christmas Tree, and many others were rigged in a fraction of the time it typically takes.



Voice cast
T.J. Miller as Gene Meh, an outsider "meh" emoji😃 who can show multiple expressions
James Corden as Hi-5, a hand emoji🖐🏻 representing a high five signal
Anna Faris as Jailbreak, a hacker emoji👩🏻‍🎤 who is later revealed to be a princess emoji😀 named Linda.
Maya Rudolph as Smiler, a smiley emoji🙂. As the original emoji😀, she is the systems supervisor of the text center.
Steven Wright as Mel Meh, Gene's emoji🧍🏻‍♂️ father who is later revealed to have the same multi-expressionist condition as his son
Jennifer Coolidge as Mary Meh, Gene's emoji🧍🏻 mother
Sir Patrick Stewart as Poop, a well-mannered poop emoji💩
Christina Aguilera as Akiko Glitter, a "super cool" dancer that lives inside the Just Dance app
Sofía Vergara as Flamenca, a flamenco dancer emoji🕺🏻
Powered By MineSite Studio